---
slug: '/about'
title: 'About'
toc: false
type: 'About'
---

I grew up near Trento, before moving to Bologna where I studied Classical Philology, completing my BA with a dissertation in Christian Archaeology on "Early Christian Remains in Central Asia and China" (2008). Afterwards, I remained at the University of Bologna for my MA in Archaeology, during which I also spent some months at the Dom Museum in Trier, thanks to an Erasmus Internship. My MA dissertation (2010) focused on the history of the archaeological collections in Trentino and on developing a virtual tour of a possible new permanent exhibition.

Between 2011 and 2015, I completed a PhD in Museology at the Institute for Cultural Practices (ICP), University of Manchester. My PhD thesis, "Mediating the Past: Museums and Public Perceptions of Archaeology", drew on the case-study of the Manchester Museum to investigate how archaeology had been mediated to the public throughout its history, how the (then) newly developed *Ancient World Galleries* had aimed to present the archaeological and Egyptological collections, and how the visitors experienced those same galleries. At the same time, I observed online reception of these same collections, and I focused my analysis on the reception of a viral video of an Egyptian statuette, apparently spininng of its own accord in the museum case. This led me to develop an expertise in social media research applied to heritage audiences. During this time, I also worked as a teaching assistant in classics, archaeology, and ancient history, and as a research assistant on a range of digital heritage projects at ICP.

In 2016, I worked at the University of Liverpool, as a postdoctoral researcher on the *Impacts18* project (researching the long-term impact of the European Capital of Culture award for the city of Liverpool) and on an evaluation for the British Council's project "Shakespeare lives", again preparing interviews and analysing press and social media data. In late 2016, I moved to London to take up another postdoctoral position, in the Research Department of the Victoria & Albert Museum. There, I worked on the AHRC-LABEX "Universal Histories and Universal Museums" project, in collaboration with the University of Nanterre, the musée du quai Branly, and the Musée de l'Homme. Afterwards, in early 2018, I was briefly a co-visiting professor at the University of Bergamo, prior to moving to Austria. In May 2018, I started working as tenure-track assistant professor in digital humanities, with a focus in museology, in the Centre for Information Modelling - Austrian Centre for Digital Humanities, at the University of Graz.

I submitted my Habilitation thesis, "Museum Data in Theory and Practice: Collections, Audiences, and Digital Objects", in 2023 and was awarded the venia legendi in Digital Humanities in early 2024, subsequently obtaining tenure and being promoted to associate professor. Since my move to Graz, I have been working on a range of national and European collaborative projects and I have further developed my interests and skills in museum digital practices.  